#Notes on Creating, Maintaining, Participating in and Completing this Experiment
version 0.1.1

This is a place for recording observations on the conduct of this experiment. Please add to this. Observations are currently in no particular order:

- setting up the structure prior to launch took a lot of time. Right before launching, the repos were forked for the Honest-PI and GitHub Experiment to have them available for re-use.
- the structure for the article was broken up into individual files and placed in its own [folder](https://github.com/ASU-CPI/github-experiment/tree/master/article) to make it easier to manage.
- assumption is that a [master version](https://github.com/ASU-CPI/github-experiment/blob/master/article/article.md) of the complete article will be published once per week during the experiment.
- [licensing](https://github.com/ASU-CPI/github-experiment/blob/master/licensing.md) was establish, but no CLA was implemented (too legalistic and would likely have reduced participation). 
- contributors were solicited through an open call (e.g., via the [CPI blog](https://cpi.asu.edu/honest-github-experiment), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ASU_CPI/statuses/451014461873487872), etc.) and targeted invitations.
- the management of contributions was left undefined. A PMC (project management committee) consisted of [one collaborator](https://github.com/JustinLongo) at project start, with the anticipation that additional members would be added.
- sectioning the article made referencing difficult
- GitHub [removed the internal private messaging function in April 2012](https://github.com/blog/1091-spring-cleaning). Interesting rationale. So contributor-to-contributor communication will have to be by email. 
- One way that GitHub is better than wikis is that two people can work on the same file at the same time and those changes can be merged after the fact. This is fine when people are contributing different things to the same file. But if two of us work on the references at the same time, this will just be duplicated effort. So what's a good practice to follow: "check out" files?
- Having a difficult time finding my voice as an author in the process of writing. Everything feels disconnected, and I am not sure what would be the most powerful statements to add.  
- Perhaps a solution to comment above would be to focus the entire group on one section at a time. (Intro would be one of the last)
- I'm outside of the ASU-CPI group, but was tipped off to this experiment by someone there. I've been lurking for a  while on Github trying to figure out if I can contribute and how I would do it. This sort of open-online system lacks that the inter-personal relationships that typically inform how best I can contribute (if at all) relative to others and if certain contributions may receive a poor response from others in terms of their vision for the work or their sense of ownership of ideas and contributions (or maybe some tools exist for overcoming this but I haven't figured them out). Another barrier to wanting to contribute is the risk that nothing will come of the contributions. Everyone is pressed for time so a guy has to distribute risk between projects. In this case I thought it was worth giving it a try, but I could imagine other scenarios where I wouldn't try to make a contribution to an open project, even if the topic was interesting.
- Same guy as one comment above. So I heard about the experiment and made some suggestions on the draft, then kind of forgot about it because I'm busy with my own work. I'm not actually sure what happened with the experiment until I got a random github email today. My experience with collaborations is that is the people not the technology that matters and part of this is that there has to be a leader for the paper with ownership of it, otherwise it kind of turns into a tradegy of the commons where everyone focuses on their own things and the half finished manuscript just kind of sits there forever. Another issue for me is that I don't see how this is any advantage relative to just sending a word document around between people or editing a google doc. I guess its pretty cool to test what happens when anyone can get involved, but having too many people get involved slows things down and can dilute the overall goal of the work. I went to a workshop at UCSB last january where a bunch of computer people gave me death stares for saying that out loud. But the issue is this - I'm busy and checking another website is a low priority for me when I have so much else going on. I hear about new tools to improve collaboration every month, but the last thing I need is more websites to check and to learn how to use, especially if there is going to be a new learning curve for the next big thing every year or two. The thing that would best improve my collaborations is having more time! This is not meant to be a rant against this experiment or the ideas behind it. Obviously I thought it had enough merit to try to be involved in, I just mean to illustrate my perspectives on the difficulties I saw in trying to contribute. They seem pretty petty when written out, but even if they petty they were still enough to keep me from making any sort of real contribution.
